extraction concepts, ingest workflow, embeddings + audio/video consolidation (#1970)
NVIDIA/nv-ingest: docs/docs/extraction/audio-video.md

# Audio and video ingestion

Use this page for speech and audio extraction with Parakeet ASR and for video workflows that combine audio with OCR on frames or derived images.

**Sections:** [Speech and audio (Parakeet)](#speech-and-audio-extraction) · [Run Parakeet on the cluster (Helm)](#run-parakeet-on-the-cluster-helm) · [Parakeet on NVCF (cloud)](#parakeet-on-nvcf) · [Video and frame OCR](#video-and-frame-ocr)

## Speech and audio extraction {#speech-and-audio-extraction}

This documentation describes two ways to run [NeMo Retriever Library](overview.md) with the [parakeet-1-1b-ctc-en-us ASR NIM microservice](https://docs.nvidia.com/nim/speech/latest/asr/deploy-asr-models/parakeet-ctc-en-us.html) (`nvcr.io/nim/nvidia/parakeet-1-1b-ctc-en-us`) to extract speech from audio files:

- Run the NIM locally on your cluster with the [NeMo Retriever Helm chart](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Retriever/blob/main/helm/README.md)
- Use NVIDIA Cloud Functions (NVCF) endpoints for cloud-based inference

> Supported audio file types today:

Reviewer: mp4, mov, mkv, avi also work:
xref: https://nvidia.github.io/NeMo-Retriever/extraction/overview/

Author: Here is the update in audio-video.md.

The speech-extraction bullet list now matches the reviewer note: mp4, mov, mkv, and avi are documented alongside mp3 and wav, with a short clarification that for those four, the library transcribes the container’s audio track. The heading was renamed to “Supported file types for speech extraction today” so it is accurate for video containers, and a link was added to [What is NeMo Retriever Library?](vscode-file://vscode-app/c:/Users/kheiss/AppData/Local/Programs/cursor/resources/app/out/vs/code/electron-sandbox/workbench/overview.md) for the full file-type list (the overview you referenced).

The NVCF subsection is unchanged; it still describes cloud inference with NVCF—the new list applies to both self-hosted Parakeet and NVCF, since both paths use the same extract / ASR flow on these inputs.

## Run Parakeet on the cluster (Helm) {#run-parakeet-on-the-cluster-helm}

Use the following procedure to run the NIM on your own infrastructure. Self-hosted Parakeet runs on Kubernetes via the [NeMo Retriever Helm chart](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Retriever/blob/main/helm/README.md).

!!! important

    Pin the Parakeet workload to the dedicated GPU with your Helm values or the [NIM Operator](https://docs.nvidia.com/nim-operator/latest/index.html) (for example, node selectors, resource limits, or device requests appropriate to your cluster).

1. Deploy or upgrade NeMo Retriever Library with the Helm chart and enable the ASR / audio components your release requires (Parakeet and related services). Follow [Deploy (Helm chart)](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Retriever/blob/main/helm/README.md) and [Deployment options](deployment-options.md). Ensure the chart values for your cluster request the ASR NIM.

2. After the services are running, interact with the pipeline from Python.

    - The `Ingestor` object initializes the ingestion process.
    - The `files` method specifies the input files to process.
    - The `extract` method runs audio extraction.

>     - The `document_type` parameter is optional because `Ingestor` should detect the file type automatically in most cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
remove this line, it doesn't add anything

    )
    ```

    To generate one extracted element for each sentence-like ASR segment, include `extract_audio_params={"segment_audio": True}` when calling `.extract(...)`. This option applies when audio extraction runs with a self-hosted Parakeet NIM or using build.nvidia.com hosted inference, but has no effect when using the local Hugging Face Parakeet model.

    !!! tip

        For more Python examples, refer to [Python Quick Start Guide](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Retriever/blob/main/client/client_examples/examples/python_client_usage.ipynb).

## Parakeet on NVCF (cloud) {#parakeet-on-nvcf}

Instead of running the pipeline locally, you can use build.nvidia.com hosted remote endpoints.

1. NVCF requires an authentication token and a function ID for access. Ensure you have these credentials ready before making API calls.

2. Run inference from Python. Provide an NVCF endpoint along with authentication details.

    - The `Ingestor` object initializes the ingestion process.
    - The `files` method specifies the input files to process.
    - The `extract` method runs audio extraction.

>     - The `document_type` parameter is optional because `Ingestor` should detect the file type automatically in most cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

this isn't relevant here. just remove the line

    )
    ```

>     To generate one extracted element for each sentence-like ASR segment, include `extract_audio_params={"segment_audio": True}` when calling `.extract(...)`. This option applies when audio extraction runs with a Parakeet NIM (self-hosted or NVCF) but has no effect when using the local Hugging Face Parakeet model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    To generate one extracted element for each sentence-like ASR segment, include `extract_audio_params={"segment_audio": True}` when calling `.extract(...)`. This option applies when audio extraction runs with a self-hosted Parakeet NIM or using build.nvidia.com hosted inference, but has no effect when using the local Hugging Face Parakeet model.

```

Anywhere you're referring to NVCF, you're talking about build.nvidia.com hosted inference, right? Assuming yes, please go through and find/replace NVCF with build.nvidia.com

    !!! tip

        For more Python examples, refer to [Python Quick Start Guide](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Retriever/blob/main/client/client_examples/examples/python_client_usage.ipynb).

## Parakeet on NVCF (cloud) {#parakeet-on-nvcf}

> Instead of running the pipeline locally, you can use NVCF with remote endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of running the pipeline locally, you can use build.nvidia.com hosted remote endpoints.
```

same nvcf comment
